README.md, before:

# Quantum AI Assistant

A sophisticated quantum-powered AI assistant that leverages IBM Quantum Experience to process and respond to messages using quantum computing principles.

## Features

- Real-time quantum-enhanced chat interface
- Advanced quantum state visualization
- Quantum-based confidence scoring
- IBM Quantum Experience integration
- Modern, responsive UI with Material-UI
- Secure API key management

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- PostgreSQL 15 (local or Docker)
- IBM Quantum Experience API key
- Node.js 16+ (for local development)
- Python 3.11 (for local development and Docker builds)

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/quantum-ai-assistant.git
cd quantum-ai-assistant
```

2. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Edit the `.env` file and add your API keys:
```
# SECURITY WARNING: Never commit this file to version control
# SECURITY WARNING: Keep your API keys private and secure

# API Key for authentication (generate a new secure key)
API_KEY=your_secure_api_key_here
```

4. Generate a secure API key:
```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```

5. Add the generated key to your `.env` file.

6. Ensure a PostgreSQL database is available. Docker Compose will automatically
   launch one, but for local development without Docker you'll need a running
   PostgreSQL 15 instance and to update `DATABASE_URL` in your `.env` file.

## Running the Application

### Using Docker (Recommended)

1. Build and start the containers:
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

2. Access the application:
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs
 - PostgreSQL: port 5432 on `db` service

### Local Development

#### Backend

1. Create a Python virtual environment:
```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Start the backend server:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload
```
4. Make sure PostgreSQL is running locally and that `DATABASE_URL` in your `.env`
   points to it.

#### Frontend

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
# Install TypeScript types for D3
npm install --save-dev @types/d3
```

2. Start the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

## Security Notes

- Never commit your `.env` file to version control
- Keep your API keys secure and private
- Regularly rotate your API keys
- Monitor your IBM Quantum account for unusual activity

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add optional chatbot modules and docs

README.md, after:

# Quantum AI Assistant

A sophisticated quantum-powered AI assistant that leverages IBM Quantum Experience to process and respond to messages using quantum computing principles.

## Features

- Real-time quantum-enhanced chat interface
- Advanced quantum state visualization
- Quantum-based confidence scoring
- IBM Quantum Experience integration
- Modern, responsive UI with Material-UI
- Secure API key management

## Architecture Overview

The project is structured around common chatbot components:

- **User Interface (UI):** React frontend located in `frontend/`.
- **Natural Language Understanding (NLU):** Placeholder implementation in `backend/components/nlu.py`.
- **Dialog Manager:** In-memory session tracking in `backend/components/dialog_manager.py`.
- **Natural Language Generation (NLG):** Basic response templates in `backend/components/nlg.py`.
- **Response Handler:** Formats replies for the UI in `backend/components/response_handler.py`.
- **Database/Knowledge Base:** PostgreSQL used via SQLAlchemy models in `backend/models.py`.
- **Integration Layer:** Stubs for external calls in `backend/components/integration.py`.
- **Authentication and Authorization:** API key header handled in `backend/main.py`.
- **Analytics and Logging:** Prometheus metrics and Loguru logging in the backend.
- **Testing and Deployment:** Docker Compose orchestrates services; frontend uses React testing tools.
- **Speech-to-Text / Text-to-Speech:** Placeholder implementation in `backend/components/speech.py`.
- **Sentiment Analysis:** Basic sentiment scoring in `backend/components/sentiment.py`.
- **Personalization:** Simple user preference storage in `backend/components/personalization.py`.

## Optional Features

These modules provide additional capabilities beyond the core chatbot workflow:

- **Speech-to-Text / Text-to-Speech** converts between audio and text.
- **Sentiment Analysis** evaluates user mood.
- **Personalization** adapts replies based on user preferences.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- PostgreSQL 15 (local or Docker)
- IBM Quantum Experience API key
- Node.js 16+ (for local development)
- Python 3.11 (for local development and Docker builds)

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/quantum-ai-assistant.git
cd quantum-ai-assistant
```

2. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Edit the `.env` file and add your API keys:
```
# SECURITY WARNING: Never commit this file to version control
# SECURITY WARNING: Keep your API keys private and secure

# API Key for authentication (generate a new secure key)
API_KEY=your_secure_api_key_here
```

4. Generate a secure API key:
```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```

5. Add the generated key to your `.env` file.

6. Ensure a PostgreSQL database is available. Docker Compose will automatically
   launch one, but for local development without Docker you'll need a running
   PostgreSQL 15 instance and to update `DATABASE_URL` in your `.env` file.

## Running the Application

### Using Docker (Recommended)

1. Build and start the containers:
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

2. Access the application:
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:8000
- API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs
 - PostgreSQL: port 5432 on `db` service

### Local Development

#### Backend

1. Create a Python virtual environment:
```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Start the backend server:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload
```
4. Make sure PostgreSQL is running locally and that `DATABASE_URL` in your `.env`
   points to it.

#### Frontend

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
# Install TypeScript types for D3
npm install --save-dev @types/d3
```

2. Start the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

## Security Notes

- Never commit your `.env` file to version control
- Keep your API keys secure and private
- Regularly rotate your API keys
- Monitor your IBM Quantum account for unusual activity

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
